		

Life is Short

1月 2016

Life is short， as everyone knows. When I was a kid I used to wonder about this. Is life actually short, or are we really complaining about its finiteness? Would we be just as likely to feel life was short if we lived 10 times as long?

Since there didn't seem any way to answer this question, I stopped wondering about it. Then I had kids. That gave me a way to answer the question, and the answer is that life actually is short.

Having kids showed me how to convert a continuous quantity, time, into discrete quantities. You only get 52 weekends with your 2 year old. If Christmas-as-magic lasts from say ages 3 to 10, you only get to watch your child experience it 8 times. And while it's impossible to say what is a lot or a little of a continuous quantity like time, 8 is not a lot of something. If you had a handful of 8 peanuts, or a shelf of 8 books to choose from, the quantity would definitely seem limited, no matter what your lifespan was.

Ok, so life actually is short. Does it make any difference to know that?

It has for me. It means arguments of the form "Life is too short for x" have great force. It's not just a figure of speech to say that life is too short for something. It's not just a synonym for annoying. If you find yourself thinking that life is too short for something, you should try to eliminate it if you can.

When I ask myself what I've found life is too short for, the word that pops into my head is "bullshit." I realize that answer is somewhat tautological. It's almost the definition of bullshit that it's the stuff that life is too short for. And yet bullshit does have a distinctive character. There's something fake about it. It's the junk food of experience. [1]

If you ask yourself what you spend your time on that's bullshit, you probably already know the answer. Unnecessary meetings, pointless disputes, bureaucracy, posturing, dealing with other people's mistakes, traffic jams, addictive but unrewarding pastimes.

There are two ways this kind of thing gets into your life: it's either forced on you, or it tricks you. To some extent you have to put up with the bullshit forced on you by circumstances. You need to make money, and making money consists mostly of errands. Indeed, the law of supply and demand ensures that: the more rewarding some kind of work is, the cheaper people will do it. It may be that less bullshit is forced on you than you think, though. There has always been a stream of people who opt out of the default grind and go live somewhere where opportunities are fewer in the conventional sense, but life feels more authentic. This could become more common.

You can do it on a smaller scale without moving. The amount of time you have to spend on bullshit varies between employers. Most large organizations (and many small ones) are steeped in it. But if you consciously prioritize bullshit avoidance over other factors like money 和 prestige, you can probably find employers that will waste less of your time.

If you're a freelancer or a small company, you can do this at the level of individual customers. If you fire or avoid toxic customers, you can decrease the amount of bullshit in your life by more than you decrease your income.

But while some amount of bullshit is inevitably forced on you, the bullshit that sneaks into your life by tricking you is no one's fault but your own. And yet the bullshit you choose may be harder to eliminate than the bullshit that's forced on you. Things that lure you into wasting your time have to be really good at tricking you. An example that will be familiar to a lot of people is arguing online. When someone contradicts you, they're in a sense attacking you. Sometimes pretty overtly. Your instinct when attacked is to defend yourself. But like a lot of instincts, this one wasn't designed for the world we now live in. Counterintuitive as it feels, it's better most of the time not to defend yourself. Otherwise these people are literally taking your life. [2]

Arguing online is only incidentally addictive. There are more dangerous things than that. As I've written before, one byproduct of technical progress is that things we like tend to become more addictive. Which means we will increasingly have to make a conscious effort to avoid addictions — to stand outside ourselves and ask "is this how I want to be spending my time?"

As well as avoiding bullshit, one should actively seek out things that matter. But different things matter to different people, 和 most have to learn what matters to them. A few are lucky 和 realize early on that they love math or taking care of animals or writing, 和 then figure out a way to spend a lot of time doing it. But most people start out with a life that's a mix of things that matter 和 things that don't, 和 only gradually learn to distinguish between them.

For the young especially, much of this confusion is induced by the artificial situations they find themselves in. In middle school 和 high school, what the other kids think of you seems the most important thing in the world. But when you ask adults what they got wrong at that age, nearly all say they cared too much what other kids thought of them.

One heuristic for distinguishing stuff that matters is to ask yourself whether you'll care about it in the future. Fake stuff that matters usually has a sharp peak of seeming to matter. That's how it tricks you. The area under the curve is small, but its shape jabs into your consciousness like a pin.

The things that matter aren't necessarily the ones people would call "important." Having coffee with a friend matters. You won't feel later like that was a waste of time.

One great thing about having small children is that they make you spend time on things that matter: them. They grab your sleeve as you're staring at your phone 和 say "will you play with me?" And odds are that is in fact the bullshit-minimizing option.

If life is short, we should expect its shortness to take us by surprise. And that is just what tends to happen. You take things for granted, 和 then they're gone. You think you can always write that book, or climb that mountain, or whatever, 和 then you realize the window has closed. The saddest windows close when other people die. Their lives are short too. After my mother died, I wished I'd spent more time with her. I lived as if she'd always be there. And in her typical quiet way she encouraged that illusion. But an illusion it was. I think a lot of people make the same mistake I did.

The usual way to avoid being taken by surprise by something is to be consciously aware of it. Back when life was more precarious, people used to be aware of death to a degree that would now seem a bit morbid. I'm not sure why, but it doesn't seem the right answer to be constantly reminding oneself of the grim reaper hovering at everyone's shoulder. Perhaps a better solution is to look at the problem from the other end. Cultivate a habit of impatience about the things you most want to do. Don't wait before climbing that mountain or writing that book or visiting your mother. You don't need to be constantly reminding yourself why you shouldn't wait. Just don't wait.

I can think of two more things one does when one doesn't have much of something: try to get more of it, 和 savor what one has. Both make sense here.

How you live affects how long you live. Most people could do better. Me among them.

But you can probably get even more effect by paying closer attention to the time you have. It's easy to let the days rush by. The "flow" that imaginative people love so much has a darker cousin that prevents you from pausing to savor life amid the daily slurry of errands and alarms. One of the most striking things I've read was not in a book, but the title of one: James Salter's Burning the Days.

It is possible to slow time somewhat. I've gotten better at it. Kids help. When you have small children, there are a lot of moments so perfect that you can't help noticing.

It does help too to feel that you've squeezed everything out of some experience. The reason I'm sad about my mother is not just that I miss her but that I think of all the things we could have done that we didn't. My oldest son will be 7 soon. And while I miss the 3 年之前 old version of him, I at least don't have any regrets over what might have been. We had the best time a daddy 和 a 3 年之前 old ever had.

Relentlessly prune bullshit, don't wait to do things that matter, 和 savor the time you have. That's what you do when life is short.







Notes

[1] At first I didn't like it that the word that came to mind was one that had other meanings. But then I realized the other meanings are fairly closely related. Bullshit in the sense of things you waste your time on is a lot like intellectual bullshit.

[2] I chose this example deliberately as a note to self. I get attacked a lot online. People tell the craziest lies about me. And I have so far done a pretty mediocre job of suppressing the natural human inclination to say "Hey, that's not true!"

Thanks to Jessica Livingston 和 Geoff Ralston for reading drafts of this.



Korean Translation
	Japanese Translation


Chinese Translation











生命短暂

2016 年 1 月

众所周知，生命短暂。小时候，我经常思考这个问题。生命真的很短暂吗？还是我们真的在抱怨生命有限？如果我们的寿命延长 10 倍，我们是否也会觉得生命短暂？

由于似乎没有办法回答这个问题，我不再思考这个问题。后来我有了孩子。这给了我一个回答这个问题的方法，答案是生命真的很短暂。

有了孩子，我学会了如何将连续量（时间）转换为离散量。你只有 52 个周末可以和你 2 岁的孩子在一起。如果神奇的圣诞节从 3 岁持续到 10 岁，你只能看着你的孩子体验 8 次。虽然不可能说出像时间这样的连续量是多还是少，但 8 并不算多。如果你有一把 8 颗花生，或者一架 8 本书可供选择，那么无论你的寿命有多长，数量肯定是有限的。

好吧，生命确实很短暂。知道这一点有什么区别吗？

对我来说确实如此。这意味着“生命太短暂，不能做某事”这种形式的论据具有很强的力量。说生命太短暂，不能做某事不仅仅是一种修辞手法。它不仅仅是烦人的同义词。如果你发现自己认为生命太短暂，不能做某事，你应该尽可能地消除它。

当我问自己，生命太短暂，不能做某事时，我脑海中浮现的词是“胡说八道”。我意识到这个答案有点重复。胡说八道几乎就是生命太短暂的东西的定义。然而，胡说八道确实有一个独特的特点。它有些虚假。它是经验的垃圾食品。 [1]

如果你问自己，你把时间花在了什么无聊的事情上，你可能已经知道答案了。不必要的会议、毫无意义的争执、官僚主义、装腔作势、处理别人的错误、交通堵塞、令人上瘾但毫无回报的消遣。

这种事情进入你的生活有两种方式：要么是强加给你的，要么是欺骗你。在某种程度上，你必须忍受环境强加给你的无聊事情。你需要赚钱，而赚钱主要靠跑腿。事实上，供求规律确保了这一点：某种工作回报越高，做这种工作的人就越少。不过，强加给你的无聊事情可能比你想象的要少。总有那么一股人选择放弃默认的苦差事，去某个机会在传统意义上更少但生活更真实的地方生活。这可能会变得更加普遍。

你可以在不搬家的情况下以较小的规模做到这一点。雇主不同，你花在废话上的时间也不同。大多数大型组织（以及许多小型组织）都深陷其中。但是，如果你有意识地将避免废话置于金钱和声望等其他因素之上，你很可能会找到愿意浪费你更少时间的雇主。

如果你是自由职业者或小公司，你可以在个人客户层面做到这一点。如果你解雇或避开有害客户，你生活中的废话数量就会比收入减少的更多。

但是，虽然一定数量的废话不可避免地强加给你，但那些通过欺骗你而潜入你生活的废话不是别人的错，而是你自己的错。然而，你选择的废话可能比强加给你的废话更难消除。引诱你浪费时间的事情必须非常善于欺骗你。很多人都熟悉的一个例子就是在线争论。当有人反驳你时，他们某种程度上就是在攻击你。有时甚至非常明显。受到攻击时，你的本能是保护自己。但就像许多本能一样，这种本能并不是为我们现在生活的世界而设计的。虽然感觉违反直觉，但大多数时候最好不要保护自己。否则这些人实际上是在夺走你的生命。[2]

网上争论只是偶然上瘾。还有比这更危险的事情。正如我之前所写，技术进步的一个副产品是我们喜欢的东西往往会变得更容易上瘾。这意味着我们将越来越需要有意识地努力避免上瘾——跳出自我，问问自己“这就是我想要花时间的方式吗？”

除了避免胡说八道，一个人还应该积极寻找重要的事情。但不同的事情对不同的人来说很重要，大多数人必须了解什么对他们来说是重要的。少数人很幸运，很早就意识到他们喜欢数学、照顾动物或写作，然后想办法花大量时间做这些事情。但大多数人一开始的生活就是重要的事情和不重要的事情混在一起的，只是逐渐学会区分它们。

尤其是对于年轻人来说，这种困惑很大程度上是由他们所处的虚假环境引起的。在中学




